---
title: "S3"
date: 2020-01-07T16:01:28-08:00
draft: false
---


# S3

S3 is a block storage service that has a four common usage patterns.

- To store and distribute static web content like videos and images.
- To host entire static websites (Like this one)
- Data storage for fot computational and large-scale analytics.
- The backup and archiving of data

When it comes to the scalability of S3 its throughput will scale at a rate higher then and SINGLE server can generate or consume. To speed up data retrieval then you can use either databases to house the metadata or use a search engine like AWS's ElastiSearch. You can also store an unlimited amount of data in a single bucket not making you need to scale or configure anything.

### Different Storage Classes

S3 has 3 different storage classes:

- *Standard*: For general purpose storage.
- *Standars-IA*: IA stands for Infrequent Access. I like to think of this as kind of a baby glacier. IOt is not archival data at all but it is more for long living data that is not accessed as much.
- *Glacier*: Archival data that you want around for a long time and hardly ever expect to access.


### Transfer Acceleration
S3 also has a feature know as Transfer Acceleration that uses CloudFront's edge locations to route traffic to your S3 bucket through Amazon optimized networks. For example, if you have a bucket that stores media files located in the US West 1 region and you had a user upload a file to the bucket from Australia it would be directed to the closest CloudFront Edge location and routed through AWS routes to upload to the S3 bucket. In order to use Transfer Acceleration you need to enable it and then route all PUT and GEt requests via the accelerated URI ```<bucketname>.s3-accelerate.amazonaws.com```.

### Cross Region Replication
When Cross Region Replication is enabled it will automatically copy objects across buckets in different regions asynchronously which provides 11 nines of durability (99.999999999) 

### Versioning
S3 supports versioning for S3 buckets. when you have versioning on every time a file changes it will save every version of the file. This can make you accrue cost associated to the amount of data you have stored on S3. 

### Notification and Logging
You can turn on the notification feature to recieve notifications based on specific things that happen in a bucket such as a user removing something. You can also track access us\age by turning on Access Logging which will give you the ability to see a log of each access request.

### Cost

When it comes to S3 you are charged based on three things: Storage (GB per month), data transfer (in or out GB a month), requests (per thousand a month). Storage is based on GB per months. Features such as Transfer Accelerate will accrue its own special costs.